# Getting-CleaningData
======================
## Problem Statement:
> The purpose of this project is to demonstrate your ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. 
> The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis. 
> You will be graded by your peers on a series of yes/no questions related to the project. 
> You will be required to submit: 
> 	1) a tidy data set as described below, 
> 	2) a link to a Github repository with your script for performing the analysis, and 
> 	3) a code book that describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work that you performed to clean up the data called CodeBook.md. 
> You should also include a README.md in the repo with your scripts. 
> This repo explains how all of the scripts work and how they are connected.  

> One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is wearable computing - see for example this article.
> Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users.
> The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone.
> A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained:
> http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones 

> Here are the data for the project:
> https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 

> You should create one R script called run_analysis.R that does the following. 
> Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
> Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
> Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
> Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
> From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

> Good luck!

## Repository Structure
> - *README.md*: (this file) Contains general information about this repo.
> - *codebook.md*: File containing the description of variables, the data, and other transformations worked upon in the run_analysis.R. This file is part of assigment requirement
> - *run_analysis.R*: It is the R script that produces the tidyData.txt file and is also part of assignment requirement
> - *tidyData.txt*: It is the file generated by run_analysis.R containing the reshaped data set processed from assignment data

## Steps to execute run_analysis.R
> 1. Create a directory on local machine where you would like to clone the repository
> 2. Clone this repository : git clone https://github.com/RIGUPTA2/Getting-CleaningData
> 3. Open R and change directory into what you created in #1 using setwd(path) command with path being set to the location where run_analysis.R is placed
> 4. source("run_analysis.R")

